# Solutions to X.2: The Structure of This Book

1. For an exercise in this book, (*2.5) means the exercise will be utilize some fundamental concepts and apply them in a rather straightforward manner.
2. My understanding is that C++ is a language that aims to be a general purpose language. While it is unable to satisfy all languages, the features it provides, particularly with memory and class/object abstractions along with the standard library, gives many building blocks which can be built upon. As the text mentions, it was designed "to be a good tool for buildling a wide variety of systems and to allow a wide variety of ideas to be expressed directly."
3. **(TODO)** I think a good programming language can ...
4. It supports:
   1. Object oriented programming (OOP), through class hierarchies. This, in turn, supports polymorphism and encapsulation.
   2. Procedural programming, through built-in types, operators, functions, structs, and unions
   3. Data abstraction, which is accomplished by the design of interfaces to hide implementation details.
   4. Generic progrmaming, primarily through C++'s templates
5. Some new features offered by:
   1. 1985 release:
      1. Inlining
      2. `const`
      3. Function overloading
      4. References (`&`)
      5. Operator overloading
      6. Virtual functions
   2. C++98 (sometimes known as C++03):
      1. Standard library, a.k.a. STL
      2. Namespaces, because C++ programs got too big
      3. Some work on template mechanisms
      4. Run-time type information (RTTI)
      5. (bad idea at the time: `export`ing templates)
   3. C++11:
      1. Additions to STL:
         1. `unordered_map`
         2. Concurrency, e.g. `thread`, `mutex`, `lock`
         3. Asynchronous computation: `future`, `promise`, `async()`
         4. `regexp`
      2. `auto`
      3. Range-`for` statement
      4. `noexcept`
      5. Lambda expressions
      6. Inheriting constructors
      7. Variadic templates
      8. Type aliases
      9.  `constexpr`
      10. `enum class`
6. From a high level, static type checking means the type checking occurs at compile time, where as dynamic type checking occurs at runtime. C++ implements dynamic type checking with RTTI, most commonly using the `dynamic_cast` keyword. StackOverflow reference: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1347691/static-vs-dynamic-type-checking-in-c](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1347691/static-vs-dynamic-type-checking-in-c).

    The key is to be expressive, maintainable, and performant. C++'s static type system is flexible, and the use of user-defined types implies little, if any, overhead. Stroustrup's belief is that, in his own words, "A type-rich style of programming makes code more readable, maintainable, and analyzable." He then proceeds to say, in the next sentence, that "a trivial type system allows only trivial analysis, whereas a type-rich style of programming opens opportunities for nontrivial error detection and optimization."
    
    While this does provide little room for error in interpretation, implementation can be quite tedious, especially for types that are well known. Rather, both lower-level and higher-level abstractions should all be available.

7. Some key components of the (massive) STL:
   1. `algorithms`: contains many day-to-day algorithms, such as `sort()` and `find()`
   2. `iostream`: contains `cin`, `cout`, `istream`, `ostream`
   3. `vector`
   4. `map`
   5. `set`
   6. `deque`
   7. `iterator`
8. Some libraries that I would've liked to be in STL:
   1. `json`: kind of a shame there's no native library for handling an industry standard for data like JSON
   2. `http`: handling HTTP requests or other types of requests
   3. `boost`: still some functionality in there that isn't in STL in C++11
9. Some advantages of STL:
   1. This is a widely used library, so when talking about the standard library, most likely, people will know what you're talking about (especially if it is a commonly used header)
   2. Standard implementation means more uniform performance when using the library, and because it is generally highly optimized.
10. Some real-world C++ applications:
    1. Machine learning: pytorch and tensorflow backend are implemented in C++
    2. GCC: post-4.8 GCC is implemented in C++ (albeit a minimal version of it based heavily on C)
    3. Unreal Engine Game Dev: games developed with Unreal Engine must be developed with C++
    4. Databases: Postgres and MySQL are implemented partially in C++
    5. Embedded devices
    6. Robotics
    7. Scientific computing (e.g. boost, eigen)
    8. OpenCV: computer vision library contains functions for ray tracing, object detection, and more.
11. Some tips that would help me are:
    1. [1] Don’t simply mimic Java style in C++; that is often seriously suboptimal for both maintainability and performance.
    2. [5] Minimize the use of reference and pointer variables: use local and member variables.
    3. [6] Remember: a variable is never implicitly a reference
    4. [9] Use abstract classes as interfaces to class hierarchies; avoid "brittle base classes," that is, base classes with data members
    5. [10] Use scoped resource management ("Resource Acquisition Is Initialization"; RAII) whenever possible
12. Based on the questions for this sections, my top-ten list of helpful design and programming rules are:
    1. Understand the design of any programming language you're using.
    2. Understand what a programming language can and can't do.
    3. Identify the set of programming styles supported by a progrmaming language.
    4. Trace the history of the language; it will help you understand the purpose of library and, consequently, gain a different perspective on the library's function.
    5. Figure out the language's compilation process (i.e. from code to runtime) from a high-level perspective, and learn how type-checking is involved in this process.
    6. Determine the major components of any important libraries, e.g. STL, boost, other libraries that you anticipate using regularly.
    7. Figure out what needs to be improved, e.g. what can be added to, or removed from, a library.
    8. Determine the advantages of creating a library versus having separate implementations.
    9. Aniticpate what applications might be able to be built from the tools you build.
    10. Always be improving!
